The US has said the bombing, which took place in the Afghan city of Kunduz, was a mistake and it was attempting to strike the Taliban. MSF wants the bombing to be investigated as a war crime. Mr Obama has also apologised to the president of Afghanistan. "If it is necessary to hold individuals accountable, that will be done," said White House spokesman Josh Earnest. Mr Obama "expressed his condolences" to MSF president Joanne Liu, said Mr Earnest. "In the United States when we make mistakes, we're honest about it. We own up to it," he said. Mr Earnest also hinted at the possibility of paying victims and their families, a Department of Defense policy. He said he could not say legally whether the bombing was a war crime but the US "goes to great lengths to limit the loss of life" of civilians. In a statement, MSF said they received the apology but it was still demanding the International Humanitarian Fact-Finding Commission (IHFFC) investigate. MSF has said it would not trust internal military inquiries into the bombing. The IHFFC was set up in 1991 under the Geneva Conventions. MSF says the co-ordinates of the hospital were well-known and its bombing could not have been a mistake. A number of inquiries have been ordered - by the US justice department, the Pentagon, Nato and an American-Afghan team.
The move is part of national fire service reforms unveiled by Home Secretary Theresa May last week. Sussex PCC Katy Bourne said emergency services would have an increased duty to collaborate under the new bill. But West Sussex County Council (WSCC) said it already had an excellent model. East Sussex's fire authority said it would co-operate with the PCC but it believed collaboration could be achieved without elaborate structural change. Ms Bourne said she had written to WSCC leader Louise Goldsmith and Phil Howson, East Sussex Fire Authority chairman, to request they begin to look at the feasibility of bringing both fire services under her authority. "Just as we have one police force that effectively manages the county, we need to understand if one fire service not two could achieve the same," she said. Ms Bourne's letter met with cross-party opposition from WSCC. And Ms Goldsmith also invited the home secretary to visit West Sussex and see an alternative to the government's preferred plan. Ms Goldsmith said West Sussex fire service was already integrated within the council and served communities. She added last year's Shoreham air disaster showed how West Sussex emergency services already worked together. East Sussex Fire Authority said it was willing to co-operate with the PCC to determine whether proposals could improve delivery of services and create efficiencies. In a statement, it added: "[The fire authority] believes whilst close collaboration between the emergency services is essential, it can be achieved without elaborate structural change. "It is also the fire authority's considered view that it is more accountable to the community it serves because its members are elected councillors."
Tumours in the ovaries are hard to detect in the earliest stages meaning it can be too late to treat them effectively by the time they are found. A trial of 4,051 women, reported in the journal Cancer, showed the method could identify those needing treatment. But a huge study taking place in the UK will give a final verdict on the test when it is completed in 2015. There is a survival rate of up to 90% when ovarian cancer is caught early, compared with less than 30% if it is discovered in the later stages. Unlike other cancers, the symptoms, such as pelvic and abdominal pain or persistent bloating, are often put down to other common ailments and the tumour can be missed. There is no mass screening programme to detect the cancer either. Scientists already know that levels of a protein in the blood, called CA125, are often higher with ovarian cancer. However, it is too unreliable on its own. It misses some patients and tells others they have the cancer when they are actually healthy. Researchers are now testing the idea of using the blood test to sort patients in risk groups based on levels of CA125. Instead of going straight for surgery, low-risk patients are tested again in a year, medium-risk ones after three months and high-risk patients have an ultrasound scan to hunt for tumours. The US study, at the University of Texas, followed post-menopausal women for 11 years on average. Ten women had surgery based on their ultrasound scan and all the cancers detected were at an early stage. Researcher Dr Karen Lu told the BBC: "Clinical practice definitely should not change from our study, but it gives us an insight - we didn't get a lot of false positives." She said the UK study of 50,000 people would give definitive results: "There are two big questions - do we see cancers at an earlier stage and do we decrease the number of deaths." Dr Sarah Blagden, from the Ovarian Cancer Action research centre, said: "Relative to the trial under way in the in the UK , this is a small study, but it does show that effective ovarian screening is possible. "In 2015 the results of the UKCTOCs study will become available and the results are eagerly anticipated, more so now that this American study has produced such encouraging results." Annwen Jones, the chief executive at Target Ovarian Cancer, said: "The results of this study are without doubt very positive, and we should take hope from that. "Early detection of ovarian cancer will be the key to transforming survival rates.  However, this study is very small, and there is no guarantee that the results will be replicated on a larger scale."
